docs/faq.rst, before:

Frequently Asked Questions
==========================

Where is "ERROR 4: Unable to open EPSG support file gcs.csv" coming from and what does it mean?
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The full message is "ERROR 4: Unable to open EPSG support file gcs.csv.  Try
setting the GDAL_DATA environment variable to point to the directory containing
EPSG csv files." The GDAL/OGR library prints this text to your process's stdout
stream when it can not find the gcs.csv data file it needs to interpret spatial
reference system information stored with a dataset. If you've never seen this
before, you can summon this message by setting GDAL_DATA to a bogus value in
your shell and running a command like ogrinfo:

.. code-block:: console

    $ GDAL_DATA="/lol/wut" ogrinfo example.shp -so example
    INFO: Open of 'example.shp'
          using driver 'ESRI Shapefile' successful.

    Layer name: example
    Geometry: Polygon
    Feature Count: 67
    Extent: (-113.564247, 37.068981) - (-104.970871, 41.996277)
    ERROR 4: Unable to open EPSG support file gcs.csv.  Try setting the GDAL_DATA environment variable to point to the directory containing EPSG csv files.

If you're using GDAL software acquired by a package management system like apt
or yum, or Homebrew, you can likely eliminate this message and the condition
that causes it by unsetting GDAL_DATA in your environment.

If you see this error message when using Rasterio in a Python program or when
using Rasterio's CLI in a shell script, the solution is to upgrade to version
1.0.18, which almost always sets GDAL_DATA when needed and otherwise leaves it
alone.

Commit message:

Better notes about pip and conda

docs/faq.rst, after:

Frequently Asked Questions
==========================

Where is "ERROR 4: Unable to open EPSG support file gcs.csv" coming from and what does it mean?
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The full message is "ERROR 4: Unable to open EPSG support file gcs.csv.  Try
setting the GDAL_DATA environment variable to point to the directory containing
EPSG csv files." The GDAL/OGR library prints this text to your process's stdout
stream when it can not find the gcs.csv data file it needs to interpret spatial
reference system information stored with a dataset. If you've never seen this
before, you can summon this message by setting GDAL_DATA to a bogus value in
your shell and running a command like ogrinfo:

.. code-block:: console

    $ GDAL_DATA="/path/to/nowhere" ogrinfo example.shp -so example
    INFO: Open of 'example.shp'
          using driver 'ESRI Shapefile' successful.

    Layer name: example
    Geometry: Polygon
    Feature Count: 67
    Extent: (-113.564247, 37.068981) - (-104.970871, 41.996277)
    ERROR 4: Unable to open EPSG support file gcs.csv.  Try setting the GDAL_DATA environment variable to point to the directory containing EPSG csv files.

If you're using GDAL software installed by a package management system like apt
or yum, or Homebrew, you don't need to set the GDAL_DATA environment variable.
That software has the right directory path built in. If you see this error,
it's likely a sign that GDAL_DATA is set to a bogus value. Unset GDAL_DATA if
it exists and see if that eliminates the error condition and the message.

If you're installing GDAL into a Conda environment or into a Python virtual
environment by running `pip install rasterio` (remember that the Rasterio
wheels on the Python Package Index include a GDAL library and its data files)
the situation is different. The proper data directory path is not built in and
GDAL_DATA must be set. Rasterio 1.0.18, whether from PyPI or Conda, will set
the GDAL_DATA environment variable to the correct location when it is imported.
