docs/writing.rst, before:

Writing Datasets
=================

.. todo::

    * supported drivers
    * appending to existing data
    * context manager
    * write 3d vs write 2d
    * document issues with writing compressed files (per #77)
    * discuss and refer to topics
        * creation options
        * transforms
        * dtypes
        * block windows

Opening a file in writing mode is a little more complicated than opening
a text file in Python. The dimensions of the raster dataset, the 
data types, and the specific format must be specified.

Here's an example of basic rasterio functionality. 
An array is written to a new single band TIFF.

.. code-block:: python

    # Register GDAL format drivers and configuration options with a
    # context manager.
    with rasterio.Env():

        # Write the product as a raster band to a new 8-bit file. For
        # the new file's profile, we start with the meta attributes of
        # the source file, but then change the band count to 1, set the
        # dtype to uint8, and specify LZW compression.
        profile = src.profile
        profile.update(
            dtype=rasterio.uint8,
            count=1,
            compress='lzw')

        with rasterio.open('example-total.tif', 'w', **profile) as dst:
            dst.write(array.astype(rasterio.uint8), 1)

    # At the end of the ``with rasterio.Env()`` block, context
    # manager exits and all drivers are de-registered.

Writing data mostly works as with a Python file. There are a few format-
specific differences.

Commit message:

document driver support situation, fixes #731

docs/writing.rst, after:

Writing Datasets
=================

.. todo::

    * appending to existing data
    * context manager
    * write 3d vs write 2d
    * document issues with writing compressed files (per #77)
    * discuss and refer to topics
        * creation options
        * transforms
        * dtypes
        * block windows

Opening a file in writing mode is a little more complicated than opening
a text file in Python. The dimensions of the raster dataset, the 
data types, and the specific format must be specified.

Here's an example of basic rasterio functionality. 
An array is written to a new single band TIFF.

.. code-block:: python

    # Register GDAL format drivers and configuration options with a
    # context manager.
    with rasterio.Env():

        # Write the product as a raster band to a new 8-bit file. For
        # the new file's profile, we start with the meta attributes of
        # the source file, but then change the band count to 1, set the
        # dtype to uint8, and specify LZW compression.
        profile = src.profile
        profile.update(
            dtype=rasterio.uint8,
            count=1,
            compress='lzw')

        with rasterio.open('example-total.tif', 'w', **profile) as dst:
            dst.write(array.astype(rasterio.uint8), 1)

    # At the end of the ``with rasterio.Env()`` block, context
    # manager exits and all drivers are de-registered.

Writing data mostly works as with a Python file. There are a few format-
specific differences.

Supported Drivers
-----------------
``GTiff`` is the only driver that supports writing directly to disk.
GeoTiffs use the ``RasterUpdater`` and leverage the full capabilities 
of the ``GDALCreate`` function. We highly recommend using GeoTiff 
driver for writing as it is the best-tested and best-supported format.

Some other formats that are writable by GDAL can also be written by
Rasterio. These use an ``IndirectRasterUpdater`` which does not create
directly but uses a temporary in-memory dataset and ``GDALCreateCopy``
to produce the final output.

Some formats are known to produce invalid results using the
``IndirectRasterUpdater``. These formats will raise a ``RasterioIOError``
if you attempt to write to the. Currently this applies to the ``netCDF``
driver but please let us know if you experience problems writing other formats.
